Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

2.	why do we need data structure?
Ans: Because data structure is very efficient and perform wide range of functions in java.

3.	List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?

Ans: The name of areas are: Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System,  Statistical analysis package,Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, Simulation.

Ans: Array is a fixed-size sequential collection of elements of the same type.

4.	what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans: An array is basic functionality provided by Java. ArrayList is part of collection framework in Java.Therefore array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them.

5.	what is LinkedList?
Ans: LinkedList is an implementation of List interface. It inherits the AbstractList class and implements List and Dequeue interfaces.

6.	what is queue?
7.	Ans The java.util.Queue is a subtype of java.util.Collection interface. It supports the insert and remove operations using a first-in first-out (FIFO) discipline. By convention, the queue insert operation enqueue and the remove operation dequeue.

8.	what is stack?
Ans: A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (a 'push' operation), and removed (a 'pop' operation).Many stacks also support a read ahead (a 'peek' operation), which reads data without removing it.

9.	what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans: In computer programming, FIFO (first-in, first-out) is an approach to handling program work requests from queues or stacks so that the oldest request is handled next. LIFO (last-in, first-out) is an approach in which the most recent request is handled next and the oldest request doesn't get handled until it is the only remaining request on the queue (or in the stack).

10.	what is the order of complexity?
Ans: Algorithmic complexity is concerned about how fast or slow particular algorithm performs. The goal of order complexity is to organize the algorithms according to their performances.
11.	what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans: In the best case analysis, we calculate lower bound on running time of an algorithm. The best case for a simple linear search on a list occurs when the desired element is the first element of the list. If the targeted element is in the beginning of the array, then this search would require only a single comparison which is known as the best case.

12.	what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans: In the worst case analysis, we calculate upper bound on running time of an algorithm. when the element to be searched (x in the above code) is not present in the array. When x is not present, the search() functions compares it with all the elements of array  one by one.

13.	what is tree in data structure?
Ans: A tree data structure is a powerful tool for organizing data objects based on keys. It is equally useful for organizing multiple data objects in terms of hierarchical relationships.

14.	what is graph in data structure?

15.	what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

16.	How HashMap works in java?

17.	What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?

18.	What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?

19.	What is difference between an array and a linked list?

20.	What is DFS and BFS?

21.	What is Recursion?

22.	What is Big-(O)-notation?

23.	Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

24.	Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
25.	a)In terms of Accessing element.
26.	b)In terms of Inserting element.
27.	c)In terms of Searching element.
28.	d)In terms of Removing element.

